# Symfony-5-CRUD-app
This is a sample Symfony-5 CRUD web application with a Bootstrap-5 frontend design features. It demonstrates the basics of Symfony eco system like Doctrine ORM, annotations, MVC pattern and Twig templates in action. 

## How to use?
You have to understand the basics of Symfony-5 if you want to use this template, so this is not a Symfony or PHP basics tutorial. Please have that in mind and learn OOP Php, Composer manager, and Symfony framework basics first before you download or clone this repository. This is a classic Symfony installation that was set in motion with <code>composer create-project symfony/skeleton nameOfProject</code> command, with Annotations and Twig packages installed via composer. I also use an Apache web server here - with XAMPP, instead of in-built symfony server that runs with <code>symfony server:start</code> command. If your Symfony server does not run, try to google it and find out if you have all the required Php extensions installed to run this server. If you are using XAMPP like me, just start XAMPP, and navigate to your project/public folder and that's it. I didn't use virtual hosts or anything like that. Please check that you have Php 7+ installed on your system (XAMPP or globally). If you still have Php-5 installed and wonder how you can't run anything without errors read the first lines of this paragraph, again. Otherwise, clone or download this repo and start practicing your Symfony skills.

## Sample database
There is a <code>symfony_tasks_1.sql</code> sample database file in the root directory of the project, which is a MySQL database that I have created via Doctrine and use in this project, with a few tasks already present. Please note that I have removed the "<code>@ORM\GeneratedValue()</code>" annotation in the Todo entity that marks the ID field. Since it automatically autoincrements the last inserted ID value, it can't calculate the ID based on deleted items also, so the App has to check the last present ID value in the Task table, not the last incremented value, before it inserts the new Task. Otherwise, we would have the ID of value 8 for example, following ID = 5 and such. This is a little hack that I did, but You can leave the default ID field annotations as it is if you like, if you are starting with a fresh Symfony installation before importing this project.

